This episode is sponsored by
Datadog with 350 plus integrations,
as well as metrics logs,
traces and APM Datadog enables
your team to quickly find
and fix issues before they
escalate. Visualize your microservices architecture
with a service map, spot
unusual trends with the log
patterns, view and monitor the
availability of your services with
synthetics. Start a free 14
day trial of Datadog today
and receive a complimentary t-shirt
by visiting bitly.com/data dog shirt.
That's bitly.com/datadog shirt. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm chatting with
Andrew Hunt and Dave Thomas authors
of the pragmatic programmer from
tournament to master now in
its 20th year. How are
you gentlemen? We are thanks
for having us. I know,
I know this, Andy, you
get an Andrew and I
just got a Dave. I
mean, you know, you know,
what's funny is that that's
one of the other combinations
because when we first wrote
the book, it was Andrew
and David, because, you know,
we were young trying to
make a name for ourselves
and then all the books
we've written since then have
been Dave and Andy or
Andy and Dave. And so
we still get kind of
random permutations. Is there a
preferred one? I dunno. I
guess my dad is Dave,
so I'm afraid. I, I
got a little sloppy there.
That's what I go by.
Andy and Dave and Andy.
This is 20 years old,
which feels impossible. I mean,
I, it, it feels fresh.
It reads fresh. Did you
know when you were writing
it that it was going
to be a Seminole work?
Do you sit down and
say, you know, let's write
a book, but let's make
it a seminal work or
did you just slap the
keyboard? And it turned out
that way. I think the
only person in history who
said, I'm going to write
a bestseller was Jeffrey Archer.
And he wrote one because
he was bankrupt and he
needed the money. I think
otherwise it's just, I mean,
you write the book you
write and you see what
happens. I mean, I think
both of us were stunned
when it took off, because
for us it was an
exercise in really as much
as anything else trying to
clarify our own thoughts and
put down what was to
us kind of like common
sense that our clients at
the time, weren't really seeing
as common sense. So it
was almost like a crystallization
of a set of notes
when we wrote it. So
you're writing it down to
explain it to yourself, make
sure that what you think
you know is what you
know. Yeah. And to our
clients. I mean, we got,
we kind of got, we
went through a period where
we were going into onsite
and just about everybody we
went to, I mean, typically
as a consultant, you don't
get brought in when things
are wonderful anyway, But the
people that we were brought
into all had the same
kind of problems, their builds
weren't consistent, they were shipping
code that hadn't tested, they
were designing things in such
a way. It was impossible
to change them. And so
we thought, well, let's save
ourselves a bit of time
and heartache by just jotting
down notes we can give
to them. And that got
turned into the pragmatic programmer.
Yeah. I mean the original
thought was we didn't even
seek out to do a
book to begin with. We
were just going to write
a white paper, you know,
literally just, just some notes
just to save us a
little time, going into the
next client and, you know,
projects grow in scope, right?
So, you know, the little
white paper became, you know,
more of a full fledged
book, but you know, that
was, that was our intent.
We didn't, we had no
notion that this would be
a popular at all or
any kind of bestseller. We
just kind of, we were
like, wow, we can actually
get this printed and published,
you know, that's, that's really
cool. And we figured, you
know, our moms would buy
a copy and you know,
maybe a few friends, but
yeah, not much more than
that Sounds like you're, you're
trying not to repeat yourself
in this case. You're being
dry because you're like, you
know, people keep asking us
this, we should probably just
make a FAC and then
we can hand it to
the client when we were
like, Oh, welcome. You've just
hired us. Here's the, here's
how we work, Basically, basically.
And then as Dave said,
as we started looking at
that, that level of project,
like, well, okay, we have
a chance to make this,
this fact, this white paper,
what are the most important
things that we could say?
You know, we don't want
to waste time talking about,
well, you know, you should
format your code this way
or adhere to the one
true brace style or, or,
you know, that, that level
of stuff. So it's like,
well, what do you want
to say? And what is
the most important and how
can we, how can we
say that? How can we
convey that in a way
that people will, will remember
it and understand it and
you know, really grok it.
Cause as much as I'd
love to you, can't go
in and tell people, you
have to brush your teeth
and eat your broccoli and
know that kind of advice.
It's like, yes, that's true.
But people tune out. They
won't, they won't necessarily hear.
And if nothing else, you
gotta eat your broccoli and
then brush your teeth. Otherwise
there's no point order important.
Absolutely. Yeah. And I think
the other thing that was
really beneficial to us was
that at that time we
were working with a really
wide variety of clients in
a whole bunch of different
industries, different languages, different operating
systems. And so there was
no one size fits all.
So we were kind of
forced to go back a
level and look at it
from the kind of, you
know, the metal level, if
you like, of what are
the underlying concepts, as opposed
to what of the tools.
And I think that's possibly
one of the reasons that
we, we were lucky with
the book is that we
didn't make it specific or
too specific to one such
technologies When you're working in
software and especially, or auditory
and in software you're people
are always saying, if you
can name it, you can
claim it. People will spend
days trying to name the
right class. If they get
the thing they say The
name, right then they'll understand
it. And the design will
just fall out from it.
How important was it to
call it pragmatic when you
discovered that word pragmatic, you
didn't call it the dogmatic
program or you needed the
pragmatic programmer when you nailed
that word. Was that the
word that you needed or
was that just a title
We wanted because, and I
had almost forgotten this until
I saw some interview from
back in the day, but
at the time, like with
Twitter today or read it,
there was a lot of
discussion on a use net
on comp.com dot object. And
in some of these other
news groups, and there was
a long running argument slash
discussion about whether programming was
craft or not. And, and
you know, all kinds of
the follow on arguments, you
know, well, if it's not,
is it art? Is it
science? Is it engineering? Is
it this isn't that? And
the answer is yes. You
know, it's, it's all these
things in measure, but in
particular, there was a strain
of thought at the time,
which, you know, kind of
virulently persists to this day
that is very dogmatic that
says, you must abide by
this principle and you must
do this and you must
do this this way. And
we looked at these and
you're like, well, yeah, no,
it doesn't work like that
really. I mean, yes, a
lot of the time this
principle can be helpful. This
practice can be helpful. This,
you know, this paradigm can
be useful, but not always.
And you need to know
the difference. So we very
much pushed deliberately against the,
the, what we perceived as
the dogmatic approach and approach
is being pushed at the
time and said, no, no,
you gotta, you've got to
look at things in context.
You've got to be able
to apply these lessons where,
and when they make sense.
And I think a lot
of that, we tried to
capture in the book of
trying to give that sense
of, you know, this is
what you need to look
at to evaluate is this
the right thing to do
here? In this context, you
can't just blindly say, I'm
going to use a, Oh,
or I'm going to use
functional programming, or I'm going
to use scrum, or I'm
going to use CLO or
whatever it is. It has
to fit the situation. Yeah.
Yeah. That's absolutely true. I
mean, I think one thing
I like to put up
on slides is that there's
only one universal rule and
that is that there are
no universal rules. And I
think that's, that's very, very
true. And I think one
of the things that we
try to be is, and
it's harder on our readers
because what we're doing is
we're pushing back on them.
We're trying not to say,
do this. We're trying to
say, here are the options.
Here are things other people
do now go work out
what works for you, because
there are no two developers
doing the same thing at
the same time, in the
same environment, et cetera, et
cetera, et cetera. So it's
pretty much guaranteed that there
is no such thing as
a best practice. We, when
we've been talking at a,
at my job about how
to interview people, especially now
that there's this new fresh
generation of developers coming in,
and a lot of people
have been pushing back on
white boarding interviews, pushing back
on how we interview people,
because they feel that it
is asking a bunch of
trivia. And one of the,
one of the bosses propose
that we're less interested in
people who have the answers
and more interested in people
who know the right questions
to absolutely. That's a really
good way of it. The
other thing from my personal
experience is that some of
the best developers I've hired
couldn't program at the time,
you know, I mean, and
nowadays you can get productive
in a couple of months
up to a level where
you're, you know, you're paying
back your salary. So I
think you're looking at the
personality. Absolutely. I had the,
I had the, I had
the very, the very same
experience. One of the, one
of the best C programmers
I ever met had an
advanced degree in botany. And
he used to go on
literally like expeditions into the
Amazon to collect some Don't
tell me he was looking
for bugs. Oh, no, it
was plants. I'm sure. I'm
sure that there were bugs
involved, but yeah, But no,
it's yeah, it's absolutely. It's,
it's the, it's your part
of personality, but your outlook,
you know, that, that kind
of insatiable curiosity about the
world. I mean, if you're
willing to go traipse into
the farthest jungle with headhunters
and, you know, actual headhunters
who like, like cannibals, not
the scary kind who, you
know, try to get you
jobs and stuff, but you
know, if you're willing to
traipse out into the jungle
to look for plants, just
because it's cool, you know?
Yeah. You're willing to read
a few man pages, you
know, look up a few
things on the web, figure
out how stuff works, but
it's that, that driving curiosity,
Hey, this is neat. How
does this work? What's behind
this, where'd this come from?
Can I use this? You
know, that's really the driving
force. I think, Well, you
bring up an interesting point
here because we're, we're on
a, we're hearing a podcast
with, with, with all due
respect to all three of
us, a bunch of older
programmers, we probably got a
hundred years of programming experience
between us and Dave just
said, well, you know, you
can get up to speed
in a couple of weeks
and, you know, start paying
back your, your studying. It's
interesting. It's one of those
things where it's like the
game of go, right, where
it's a minute to learn
and a lifetime to master.
I'm not hearing from either
of you, any kind of
what they call these days,
gatekeeping, where it's like, well,
you know, you need a
software engineering degree and a
master's thesis before you can
start writing that HTML. I'm
hearing an enthusiasm for people
to start programming right away
and just start asking the
right questions. So I let
you into a little secret.
I I'm teaching currently I'm
teaching two classes, undergraduate level
at SMU, just to, well,
Paul, for two reasons, one
of them is I want
to corrupt the youth. So,
you know, I'm teaching them
things that, you know, like
functional programming that they wouldn't
get otherwise. But the other
reason is I have this
nagging feeling that particularly computer
science education is really poorly
serving both the industry and
the student in that these
people are coming of university
With tens, maybe hundreds of
thousands of dollars of debt.
And yet in terms of
the value to the industry
as a whole, there are
really not that much different
to people that go through
an eight week or whatever
boot camp, eight month, I
guess it is bootcamp in
that they, they aren't being
shown the real world. And
what, what they're being shown
is like, you know, various
ideas on how to do
certain things in C plus
plus or whatever it might
be. And I mean, for
example, I teach people in
a third, fourth year and
the masters students, and pretty
much universally, not a single
one of them has ever
been shown any form of
testing so far in their
calls. So it's yeah, you're,
you're never going to get
me saying, Oh yeah, you
need a degree in this.
You know, I would much
rather hire somebody who had
the right attitude and who
I liked and who was
smart and who could talk
to people and then show
them how to code. I
agree a hundred percent. In
fact, I think it's, It
seems to me and, and
both, you know, here's a
reveal, both Dave and I
have have kids in and
just about to be out
of college, you know, studying
in these areas and looking
at the various degree programs
and, you know, the contents
and what they teach. I
get the strong feeling that
most computer science programs are
there to teach you to
become a professor, a teacher
of computer science, you know,
and not practically actually get
out in the world and
be a software developer to
be a problem solver. And
that's really kind of disappointing.
I know the, when my,
my son went to college,
they, they had the attitude
in the introductory courses that
here you were, you know,
coming into college for the
first time. You want your
declaring your major to be
computer science. And they started
with the assumption. You'd basically
had never seen a computer
before, and here's the keyboard.
And you, you know, this,
this level of instruction, it's
like, they missed the fact
that this generation has been
playing on their iPods, iPads
since they were, you know,
toddlers or whatever, you know,
they're very comfortable in the
digital age. These people have
had, you know, these kids
have had summer jobs programming
in Python or PHP, or
what have you, they're coming
in with a certain base
level of knowledge. And the
regular programs are like, Nope,
you've never seen one of
these magic devices before, you
know, starting from there. And
you know, again, in four
years with everything else they're
trying to teach. Yeah. They
don't cover testing. They don't
cover working effectively in a
team. They don't cover things
like version control that are
just, you know, hygiene really
I'm, it's back to brushing
your teeth. I mean, this
is just how you do
things. And that's, you know,
often not, not part of
their experience. I Mean, fundamentally,
I don't think they teach
programming in the, in the
broader sense they teach how
to code in certain languages.
And typically that is motivated
by I'm going to teach
you data structures, or I'm
going to teach you, you
know, algorithm speed or something
like that. But in terms
of just general good things
to do when programming that
never gets taught. And that's
a, that's a big shame.
I mean, that reflects the
overall problem. Right? And, and
you, you hit the nail
there in the head. It's
like people still identify themselves
as I'm a Java programmer.
I'm a C plus plus
programmer. You know, I want
to go to school to
learn programming. No, as you
said, you know, you can
learn that in a couple
of weeks, a couple months
at a bootcamp, what you
need to learn is problem
solving. How do I attack
and solve this problem using
technology, using computer languages, using
algorithmic constructs, using, you know,
development paradigms, how do I
solve these classes of problems?
What tools do I use?
That's really the heart of
the matter. That's well, that's
the first pug, but then,
then after you get more
experienced than the second part
is being able to recognize
the problems. Yeah. And that's,
that's never tool. I've been
teaching my now teenager, some
of the fundamentals of hygiene,
the thing that came up
yesterday was the importance of
deodorant. And I was trying
to explain to this, this
young person, how important this
was. And I realized that,
you know, if you don't
have a person To do
that, you're just going to
smell. And how would you
know? Yeah. How, how could
you have discovered that? And
I think that we, we
Assume so much that this
is this or that is
discoverable, and That's asking a
lot of someone to go
and discover that when we
could simply show them, Hey,
there's a way to do
this. That's understood. And maybe
You could do it this
way. Yeah, absolutely. Hey friends,
summers longer days and slower
pace, invite us to pick
up a book, follow our
questions and try our hand
at something new. The work
of modern software developers is
evolving in ways that are
both challenging and rewarding. As
a developer, it's essential that
you cultivate a security mindset
and to help we've put
together a collection of information,
security books, podcasts, blogs, and
hands on exercises recommended by
Vira coders, across our development
security and product teams from
adjust published page Turner to
classic frac articles. There's something
here for everyone who's interested
in becoming more security minded.
So dip your toes in,
or take a deep dive
visit www dot Vierra code
that's V E R a
code.com/reading that's vericode.com/reading. I noticed
that. And the chapter three
of the, of the book,
you have a whole section
called the basic tools and
you go right off the
bat and you say, look
the power Of plain text,
but I don't remember learning
how to edit text in
college. I was told how
to use punch cuts. So
that's almost the same, but
no, I mean, again, again,
it's it's so, okay. Here
here's here's an interesting, Andy
talked about his boy who
went through effectively. It was
basically like it was a
cybernetic. So computer science, one
of those kinds of engineering
year kind of things. My
son, my oldest son took
a liberal arts degree is
relatively fluent in ancient Greek.
Some Latin, some French, he
can argue philosophers until, you
know, your eyes drop out.
And because I was in
to programming, he was vehemently
not into programming for a
long, long, long time. And
he got out of college
and discovered that there aren't
that many openings for liberal
artists out there in the
job market and was basically
hanging around, looking for, for
stuff to do and got
involved programming an Arduino to,
he was trying to sense
muscle tension. So he could
produce like an artificial hand
and he kinda got into
programming that way and decided
he liked it, went and
did a really fantastic course
at a boot camp. He's
now pro I mean, he's
been basically, he's probably paid
more than twice. The next
type of student that graduated
in his class, totally enjoying
himself and getting back to
editing text, he was taught
using visual studio code and
he has gone through this
conversion to the dark side.
And he is now, you
know, beating me up cause
I use vs code. And
he's saying, Oh no, no,
you should be using VIM
and T mucks and blah,
blah, blah. You know, and
this is someone who had
really never even seen an
editor until a year ago.
So that side of things
is, is I think there's
lots of different levels, you
know? And I think that
that sort of thing, the
edge and tech stuff is
absolutely fundamental. But what we're
trying to get to in
that chapter is not so
much the, this is how
you edit text, but it's
how the fact that if
you have stuff in text,
then it's accessible to all
of your tools. Whereas if
instead you have tools specific
data, then you're limited to
what you can do by
what the tool can do.
So that's kind of an
underlying principle, if you will,
that, that runs through the
whole book, are these subtle
little things That you might
not think about, but that
if you do them correctly,
they help keep your options
open in the future. Because
as a species, we were
terrible at fortune telling, you
know, we think we're decent
at it. We think we
can, we know, Oh, this
is how this class will
be extended in the future.
And I'm going to build
it to be maintainable and
extensible and nonsense, right? None
of us know what's going
to happen six months, 12
months, 18 months from now.
So anywhere we can, we
try to do whatever we
can to be as flexible,
keep our options open, right?
Keeping things in plain text
while we can use it.
Any number of ways in
the future, we don't need
to know what those ways
are, but we're ready for
it. It's been funny now
that I've got so many
years doing this to watch
people go back and forth
between name equals value to
XML, to Jason and now
Yammel, and I try not
to be the older programmer
and go, Oh, you know,
that's just adorable. As I
watch people reinvent these things,
as we all come back
eventually to just name value
pairs or, you know, INI
file As they say exactly.
Exactly. Yeah. But it doesn't
just apply to things like
in configuration. So for example,
we wrote the first edition
of the book using latte,
which is basically this text
files, right? Yeah. And the
publisher was, was a guest
at this. They wanted us
to use word and then
they want to take the
word and back then they
were going to import it
into frame maker and make
a book out of that.
Of course they were. And
we said, okay, but if
you do that, then how
do we make changes? And
they were, they were like,
Oh, what we make the
changes? Would you do that?
They wanted to make the
FrameMaker, the authoritative source and
then throw away External source.
Here's the, here's the real
cool thing. So skip forward
20 years and we're going
to do it again. We
had exactly the same conversation
with the publisher and in
the end we were entrenched
intransigent enough to win. But
now we're faced with the
fact that we'd produce this
incredibly complex, low tech system.
And we in the meantime
have develop our own publishing
company. And we actually had
a pretty kick ass system
around. And obviously we didn't
accept latte, but it was
in plain text. So a
couple of Ruby scripts later
allow tech actually quite happily
fed into our plain text
based production system for the
news, the new stuff. And
that's the benefit of plain
text, right? You don't have
to think about the future
because you know, ASCII is
asking is always going to
be asking you, right. It's
funny that you mentioned that
I was working with an
Apache spark system recently, and
it was many, many hundreds
of terabytes of data, but
it was all CSV. And
some of the, some of
the more, what they thought
of as being more pragmatic,
people were having trouble understanding
the scope and reconciling the
size hundreds of terabytes with
what their CSV files. Like,
I can't open them in
VIM, but they are giant.
And, but there's a benefit
for that because when it's
all done and it's a
hundred years from now, it's
the CSV files that are
going to save us all.
Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.
Well, I mean CSV it's,
it's incredible to me that,
I mean, when did Excel
for us come out like
early eighties, mid eighties or
something? Yeah. CSV is still
the only lingua franca of
business in the United States or
in the world. And you
know, all this talk about
EDI and everything else, people
just email spreadsheets, each other.
Okay. So is this a
truth? Okay. Because we are
old or is this a
truth? And we need to
teach everyone this truth because
it's the pragmatic truth. I
think, I think it actually
it's that it is a
pragmatic truth. Now, if, if
we went the other way
and said, okay, this is
a truth because we're old.
That's where we it's like,
well, bash scripts forever baby,
because I've got shell scripts
that are 30 years old,
that still work perfectly fine.
And I've got COVID and
, and you've got those
working. Did you bugs in
them? But yeah, well done.
Actually I wouldn't call them
a truth. I would call
them it's an observation because
a truth implies that it's
my way or the highway.
And you know, I don't
believe that. I think that
there are likely to be
lots of different opportunities to
doing different things in different
ways for us to date
plaintiff Has been all savior.
Well, which is great because
it gets back to the
original root of the conversation,
which is about pragmatism, where
you might feel something is
a truth and someone comes
up with a better truth
and go, okay, well, that's
the truth now. But in
this case here, it is
a proven thing because it
is just like scientific method.
It's a theory that has
been proven time and time
and time again, to be
a useful thing. Exactly. This,
this is what works and
that's really, I mean, that
really probably should have been
the tagline to the book.
This is what works, but
I think also, no, no,
no, it's not. This is
what works. It's this is
what worked in the past
tense. You could even say,
this is what worked in
the past tense for us.
Yeah. On these projects at
this time. And then here
we are over specifying the
specification. And now the name
of the book is the
pragmatic programmer. This is what
worked in the past tense
for us at these specific
times on these projects, we
hope that you have Well,
their success. exactly.com. Yes. You
made the funny joke about,
but yeah, About bash scripts
and Dave said, are those
working? And that brings me
to the chapter on software
entropy, this idea of software
rot. I am personally right
now actively trying to get
a 15 year old blogging
system that uses XML for
its backend up and running.
Cross-platform all new software And
I'm just trying to get
the thing to build. And
I like nothing's really changed
except basically everything has changed.
Yeah. It's, it's, it's insidious
because I actually had an
opportunity to pull An old,
it was either an iPhone
or an iPod touch. It's
not some old bit of
gear out of the drawer
that was maybe seven, eight,
nine, 10 years old. And
I couldn't even connect to
any websites on it. Oh.
Certificates because certificates, because the
SSL protocol, The calls have
changed because you know, enough,
little bits of the plumbing
who changed that, Oh, that's
all it's insecure. You can't
even load, you know, modern
websites on an older bit
of gear and you would
think, well, okay, God, it's
HDP. It's HTML. Nothing has
changed. Well think again, you
know, enough has changed that
you can't get there from
here. Give me coming back
to your, your, your XML
thing. I think the other
thing is we tend to
have this kind of rosy
view of life was simpler
back then. And so you
could say, well, it worked
in the past, you know,
as if it was a
no brainer back then, why
isn't it working now? But
we all tend to forget
that getting it to work
in the past also involves
downloading 17 different versions of
WebEx and melon. So you
found the one that was
compatible with whatever software you
were using. And then it
will always incompatible with this
version of read line. And
therefore I've got to change
this. And you know, and
so I don't know about
you, but one of the
reasons I switched from Linux
to a Mac was I
just got so sick of
spending at least half of
my day dependency managing the
whole time. So, you know,
it's it's, if you imagine
you had one of those
systems back then that you
had just managed to get
work and you go all
dependencies. Right. And I said
to you, Hey, Scott, stop
doing that for a month.
You'd go spare on me
because you'd know at the
end of that month, right.
Three things will be out
of date and 15 years,
forget it. I mean, you
know, just rewrite it mate.
Well, so there was a
Ruby script buried in the
thing that apparently tidy it
up and did some cleaning
of my XML files. And
it was using like Ruby
2.1 0.4. And I was
trying to go an app
to get that version of
Ruby and it's not available.
So then it's like, I
don't know what the semantic
versioning rules are for Ruby.
If I could just go
to 2.1 0.3 or six
or seven, and I ended
up shaving the yak for
about three hours, trying to
figure out which, how to
get a Ruby script to
work because of versioning because
of rock because of, and,
and of course we've all
had the experience where a
repository disappears off the internet
entirely it's software can't even
be downloaded, but then the
children, the kids today will
tell you that it's all
about containers. And I should
be doing everything as a
container. And having my build
system live, you know, basically
in Amber, just freeze, dry
it in Amber, like a
bug in Amber and have
my whole build system there,
which, which is fine until
you have to interface with
the rest of the world,
like with the phone in
the drawer. And then the
rest of the world has
moved on and it doesn't
matter what you've got an
Amber you're still going to
run into problems. Okay. So
then what's the pragmatic thing
to do. The pragmatic thing
to do is to say
that software rot is a
real thing, right? If you
don't touch a piece of
software, it will gradually stop
working, which is kind of
really counter intuitive, but it's
absolutely the truth. So if
there is software that you
suspect that you want to
be using for a long
time, you're going to have
to put some effort into
it in the same way
that, you know, if you
live somewhere, you're going to
do a maintenance every now
and then otherwise it's going
to like fall apart, same
thing with your software. And
part of that maintenance is
the code. But to me,
the most important part of
that maintenance is thinking about
the data. And do I
have backups? Do I have
backups in a format that
I can use if I
lose the original and you
know, all these kinds of
questions or things that you're
always asking yourself as part
of the ongoing maintenance issue.
So I think the pragmatic
approach is simply don't do
it. Don't just leave a
bit of software and then
come back to it and
hope it's going to work
because it won't well, see,
now you feel like I
need to go get my
zip disks and make sure
that they still work. Oh,
goodness. I think my jazz
drive is here somewhere. Yeah.
Those backups on VHS tape.
Yeah. That's yeah, no. I
actually had a whole set
of backups on some incredibly
expensive debt storage that I
bought. Right. And I had
like, I don't know, like
a $1,500 that drive and
I had about, I don't
know, 20 or 30 backup
tapes. And when I moved
house, I looked at those
and threw them away. Cause
I just thought, okay, this
is like never, ever, ever
gonna work for star. It
had a scuzzy interface on
it. This is never going
to work. What's the point,
right. I've never actually gone
to these tapes, throw them
away. And I think that's,
that's kind of like, to
some extent, one of the
things that we do Roman
software is we tend to
Revere it too much. A
lot of the stress goes
out of software. If you
consider it to be disposable,
Zs, some bits of software,
like if you were writing
software for a pacemaker, it
probably pays to get it
right. But a lot of
software really. Yeah. You don't
have to worry that much.
And if you have to
throw it away, you have
to throw it away and
start again. And that's fine.
And so I think if
he could bring the cost
of experimentation down and the
cost of replacing down, then
a lot of those stresses
go away. Yeah. That's one
of the points we make
in the book is that,
you know, it might be
better to think about writing
software, knowing that you're going
to replace it rather than
trying to invest in fortune
tellings that, well, how, how
might this be extended in
the future? How could this
be more maintainable? Forget that.
Cause you have no idea.
You don't know what's going
to happen, but you know,
worst case scenario, whatever does
happen, you're gonna have to
rip this thing out. So,
okay. How can I make
it easy To rip this
piece out when it's no
longer functioning now you've got
better coupling cohesion, Applewood, mother
pie, all those things, right?
Yeah. I just figured it's
going to change in such
a way that you're not
going to be able to
fix it. Great. So let's
toss it out, throw it
out. Right. So Context of
my blogging system, what I
need is the 20 years
of XML files and graphics.
I need the, the blog,
whether it's WordPress or ghost
or whatever, I don't really
care. Yeah. If I went
through the executive, the same
thing I had XML, Then
it turned into a, what
was it, Textile? And then
it turns Back into XML
for awhile. And then it
went right. You know, and
the most important thing has
to be re retain enough
semantic information in the data.
Right. So I can just,
I can reconstruct it. And
ultimately All I care about
in this context of my
new migration is my URLs
because prop off the inner.
So as long as I
don't change that and I've
got the same data, hopefully
it'll be a, it'll be
a good experience. And hopefully
I will be able to
have the pragmatic programmer, 20th
anniversary edition updated. How updated
is this book? How much
did you change? Because a
lot's changed in 20 years,
We changed a lot at
a lot of different levels.
So, you know, on the
one hand we probably made
edits at least several edits
to every single page. I
know that escaped. And some
of that was just the
low level obvious stuff. Right.
So we'd been talking about
CORBA and RMI and you
know, exciting new languages like
Tom and interesting languages like
Eiffel and right then the
audience is what I've never
heard of these things. Yeah.
So there's a lot of
technology, obviously that didn't survive
the passage of time. And
there were a lot of
tips where the tip is
still spot on like, like
the dry principle or, or
no broken windows or whatever,
but we have found better
ways to express it. Better
ways to talk about it.
We've discovered people taking the
advice the wrong way. Maybe
we expanded on the, the,
the dry principle a bit,
because that's come to mean
to a lot of people
don't copy and paste. And
it's not about that. It's
about duplicating knowledge. So you
may have a literal copy
of something in two different
places and that's fine because
it's serving different purposes. It's
in a different context. Like
we were saying before, that's
not a drive violation. We
had some advice in the
first book of saying like,
well, you should use metadata
to push decisions out of
the code. So you don't
have to recompile and redeploy,
if you just need to
change some bit of configuration.
Right. Great advice. We had
some people take that to
the extreme and their application
had 40,000 configuration variables in
it, but told me to
do it, Andy, it's your
fault. Exactly. So, you know,
there was, there was, there
was things like that where
we'd gotten feedback years and
figured, okay, well this is
something we should clarify. We
should tell this story. We
should mention, you know, a
drop will cure you if
you drink the whole bottle,
you're gonna die. Yeah. So
we went through and put
skull and crossbones on quite
a few things. So we
did that kind of housekeeping.
And as Andy said, that
was pretty pervasive. We also
took out a fair few
tips and inserted some nuance,
partly because the world has
changed. So for example, the
first edition kind of touched
on concurrency, but back then
the idea of having 16
calls in a laptop was
like, you know, star Trek.
So the world has changed.
And so we beefed up,
we have a whole new
chapter now on concurrency and
also the world has changed
in terms of socially that
the, the ethics of programming
is becoming more important. The
ethics of personal interactions become
more important. And so we've
added content to try to
address both of those things.
And in general, you know,
every now and then that's
a tip that I just
really, really, really wanted to
write, you know, over the,
over the intervening 20 years
have, Oh, I wish I
have put that one in.
And so now we have
the opportunity to put them
in. So probably about or
about a third, Andy is
brand new, probably about that.
And yeah, some, some topics
weren't even a concern back
then. So we have a
whole new section on security
because back in the day,
we were just struggling to
get the stuff to run.
Right. We didn't have to
worry about, you know, deliberate
attacks from bad actors locally
or around the world or
what it might be. So,
you know, that's a whole
new landscape that I'm sure
20 years from now when
we do the 40th anniversary
edition, we'll have a lot
more to say with a
whole section on AI and
making sure you don't make
Skynet. Exactly. Exactly. Please. Don't,
it'll be a whole section
on how not to upset
Skynet off switch. You need
a big, fantastic. Well, thank
you so much. Andy hunt
and Dave Thomas for chatting
with me today, always a
pleasure. Thanks for having us.
The book is the pragmatic
programmer from journeymen to master
and it is now in
its 20th anniversary updated version.
There'll be links in the
show notes, so you can
pick this up. It is
great for everyone, whether you've
been in software for 20
years or 20 minutes, I
encourage you to check it
out. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
we'll see you again Next
week. .